Name: Steven Bradley

Department: Physics

Mentor/Advisor Email: rnavarroperez@sdsu.edu

#### Hypothesis
I am working from the hypothesis that we can create a computational model to predict nuclear scattering data.

Scattering data can be used to shed light onto the complexities of particle reactions and properties that, at this point point, are not known to the scientific community with absolute certainty. However, there are currently many gaps in the current sets of data, meaning that it is critical for there to be accurate computational models as, with sufficient accuracy, they can can eliminate the need to measure new data experimentally which can potentially be a financial burden on the institution conducting the experiment.

#### Statement of Methods
This particular model has been generated by utilizing machine learning techniques to train a random forest to read an existing database of experimental data and use that data to determine the relative importances and relation between the variables of the experiments.

This random forest acts as a decision tree of potentially infinite bounds, however bounds can be set to restrict the size of the tree if desired, that asks a series of yes or no questions regarding the values of the input in order to eventually get to the correct output. Like any machine learning model, this is done by training the tree with a known set of inputs and outputs so that the tree can "learn" the correct questions to ask and in what order so that when it is tested using data that was not included in the training, it can produce results extremely close to the true experimental value in order to determine its general validity. We can then use that model to make predictions with high accuracy at any value of laboratory frame energy and scattering angle for a particular reaction type and observable.

#### Essential Results and Outcomes
The goal of this research is to create a predictive computational model for that scattering data on nucleons. This accuracy of the prediction relative to the true value is generally referred to as the tree's "score, "of which mine generally would be in the range of 87%-99%, with the variation coming from the tree randomly deciding which data would be used for training and which for testing making it slightly different each time it is compiled.

Ultimately, my goal is to compare my model with other existing, commonly used models to determine its validity and how useful its results are. The advantage of my model is that it can potentially be used to predict data far outside the normal range of experimental, or computational, limits.

#### Conclusion
At this point in my research, I have been primarily focusing on neutron-proton SGT and SGTT data to act as a proof of concept as they have a constant scattering angle, meaning that that variable can be neglected. However, this model currently fails in regions where there is little existing experimental data for it to train with. Going forward I might need to fill in those gaps with other computationally generated data from other models.
